---
migrated: 2025-09-20T01:51:38.040945
source: apple-notes-exporter
original_path: Backup/iCloud/Notes/List of questions for JK.md
vault_folder: Inbox/to-review
---
# List of questions for JK

* What does drop off look like? Are parents able to come inside? 
* What is a typical day like for JK students?
* How do you help the kids feel comfortable and settle in during the first few weeks?
* How do you keep parents informed of students progression and adjusting?
* How do you help children make friends and learn to play together?
* How are conflicts between children handled?
* What does a hot lunch program look like? Is there a menu?
* Confirm the hours of before care and aftercare
* What are their in school hours?
* How do they assist the more shy and introverted kids?
* How is French introduced to kids that don’t speak French at all?
* Do they let parents into the school for drop off? If so, on what conditions?
* How long have the FI JK teachers been at this school?
* Is there an additional ECE in the classroom?
* What does the curriculum look like at this age?
* Is there a quiet time in the middle of the day?
* Do they have outdoor time with the rest of the kids or is it separate for JK?
* What does bathroom time look like? Is it supported if students need help or supervised?
* How do teachers communicate with parents? How frequently is normal?
* What’s the balance of play vs instruction?
* What are the protocols if a child falls ill?
* How many students per class?
* Are the JK & SK kids together in the same room?

Transcript of presentation 

. Oh. You, almost evening, everyone. Welcome to terms, welcome to kindergarten tonight. Oh, that's. We're going to be introducing ourselves as we speak tonight, so that I speaking right now. I will let you know, for those of you who know. My name is Carrie Heller. I'm one of the English currently one of the English speakers. And nice to see all of you. I have the honored and privilege of introducing. I introducing.. Thank you. Thank introducing, our administration tea. Administrative tea. Administrative. Our wonderful principal, Michelle, our big who, unfortunately, can be with us tonight, Christine Roe, and the the most important person in the school. in. You can. It's. And co chair of our parent council, Katie. I know, I know, I got it. It's a lot. I. I this time, I would like to invite Michelle and not. Sounds good, thank you so much to K. and thank you for being here. I'm Michelle Laver there. I'm a front principal on Avenue school. Welcome, welcome to our new members of our school. We are very forward to having you here with us in the fall. F Avenue is a very vibrant, busy place. We have about next year we're projected at 673 students. So we have a programs JK through 8 Any list of amazing program. JK through eight French version, another phenomenal program. Four to 8 middle versions, different programs we have. This school offers so much besides the amazing teaching team. We have a hot lunch program. I know we' speaking to you about that. We currently also have many r subjects. We have a pool, which are very thankful, have been reopened after word. If you've looked around, you can see that we have amazing facilities, that is thanks to our our community and the board bring that True, and we have only a lot of bring that's planned for our coming years. Our staff next year we're projected about 29 homooms, maybe in counting because we can't get more enrollment. I've been the schoolboard a very long time and we'll tell you how long that this is my first year here at E. It's been an amazing year and I look forward to working with each of you and your team for years to come. So you don't need to hear from me because really, it's about this teaching team and getting our students into their spaces. Next year, we are projected with currently one JKK English, and that's Enrollment is growing. We checked our numbers today. We have two front two version classes, and they will be capped that will not grow. We have a full daycare, as you know, first left, you' separate entity, so we don't work along theside them, but we have. We have no power. I get a lot of emails saying, hey, can you get me in? Unfortunately, I cannot go serial power there. but you're here for a school tour. It'll mainly be on our first floor. So we look forward to welcoming here. I know you might have some questions afterwards. Do you have questions? Do you feel an email myself, please include nine times of ten, I'll say verra to the answer here. There's been here for a very long time, and she has everything. Thank you again. Not Steve Bon Swape, and then turn him over to our amazing educational team. Okay, welcome again, everybody. Uh, my name is Miss. Finell. Cpininel, and I'm one of the kindergarten teachers. I'm the front that was not the French English kindergarten teacher, alongside Moda, who is our ECE. So we're going to talk about a little bit of what a day looks like in a kindergarten classroom and work to I expect. In our classrooms, we do have a visual schedule to help the students understand and follow the routines. It gives them a clear, visual cue of what's coming next, and it makes transitions a lot smaller between sensors and everything that we do.s, that's not from go. No worries. And it also helps him build that independence and confidence that they need to learn and manage their day. more on their own. So yeah. Sorry, when he doesn't mind... So our outdoor play, we start our date outside. So it's really great to know what the weather is going to low like if we need foods, if we need all kinds of stuff like that, because we do love being outside. And it's a big part of kindergarten and an important one. It gives as students as a great chance to move their bodies first thing in the morning, so they'll be running, jumping, climbing, and build on their growth order skills in a fun and natural way. It also sparks their imagination. You often see them building all kinds of things with art amazing toys that we have outside. They'll turn it into kitchens and castles and railbirds. We're letting up our rovers side around. We see a lot of rovers outside. and it really helps some grow their creativity and problem solve, as well as it helps them learn how to share state terms and work together, which is very important for their social group. I'll pass you on to this. Okay, like with sp I's on this code, I don't so you guys know me 'cause I had your older babies. So we're gonna touch on stack time now, which generally happens. Once we come in from outdoor play, if we didn't have a morning proper morning. So this is actually room 102. So morning snack is always consist of a home snack brought from home, like our principal said that we do have a snack program and a lunch program that we'll talk about. Vera is our pro about that, but Morning Snack is always provided from home. If you choose not to go on Snack program, then choose snacks provided per day and lunch if you choose not to do that, but the way that that looks, we come in, handwhing is a must, and one of those self help skills that you think kind of comes naturally, but it doesn't, and they'll probably learn it here. So handwashing teaches them turn taking, waiting, it gives them an opportunity to what is not broken to try different things that they normally, probably wouldn't, gives them an opportunity to have social time, which I guess we all do during eating, give them types of socialize with each other, and understand other things like other friends that have allergies, food restrictions. So it kind of touches on the inclusion, too. and then after someack, we're going to go to learning. That me.. So, uh, I looked actually on my schedule when I was leaving tonight, and we do a large group. Tomorrow, we're doing a large group five times in one day, because we like to keep them short, and they quit purpose. So it would be it's a great bathroom time, and it's an opportunity to learn those social skills,Th is Mypace, This is yourpace. It really difficult. We're more five girls back. They are learning and now to I' there. It's an opportunity for everybody to learn a new skill at the same crime, and then we would take other opportunities for a day and for those people that need more instruction. And we would do things that would get time where you going to read stories, when we do our literacy lessons, our university lessons, our science classons, and opportunity for the students to share their discoveries as something that they've made or might be a show tell time. It builds us a community, and encourages active listening, and participation. That's one of the things that one reason saying, why we have shown to tell is that we want them to learn how to express themselves and how to participate, especially for those students who might be a little bit more shy than lives. and we want them to engage with academic and social development and it's a great way to do that. We try not to keep them on the perfect too long, as you can see, in evidence tonight. And so that's why we might have so many in a day. All right, so we did snack then. We're learning, then that usually takes us to our little centers, and then lunchtime, which we talked about, or how much program, which we're we'll speak more about. But there are some students who parents choose to send food from home, so in that situation, once handwashing is over with, our hot lunch friends, they get served their meals, and then after that, they're responsible for scraping their own plate, which awesome teaches, dependence and self awareness, Our friends that have home lunch obviously bring a container with all of their lunches, with containers, so parents, label your kids containers if you ever want to see them again, because they go missing and you will never see them again. So, label and make it easy so that they can click it themselves, again, teachers independence. And don't put snack and lunch in the same container. I just confuse it. They't eat it all in the morning. All right, that's where. Oh, yes, sorry. And Miss Vera. If you like to come up and talk to us about? The important hot lunch stuff. Sorry, I know, we don't want to use. No, I'm loud. You're a big. I carry it.. So I'm going to speak to you about the hot lunch program and there's no snack program.. Some of you might know for your children on a day there, we do have a full cafeteria with a full coat on on staff. Lunches, and smack are served in the classrooms. We go on a Monday basis to pay into it. $6 a day, and depending on the number of school days, that's how much you built for that month. So let's say September or October has 20 school days times $6 dollars, $120 for that month. You will go on cash online as brand new parents. You will register to go on cash online. Cash online will be your tool for the lunch and snack program, as well as all of your excursions. fundraisers, anything that the school does, we are a cashless school, everything goes through cash online. Meals are hot, party. Yeah, we do have vegetarian options as well, and ask me if the school year started, we will be sendingending communication to you. We'll learn more in our blurb. Should I talk about the peace now? please? Sure, yes.  What I'm going to try doing this year is a little differently. So I'll confess I have you on mask email base. I'm going to probably next week email all of you if you're interested in volunteering next year. So volunteering means you must have a police clearance to be able to come into the classroom? and or go on excursions. I will I will put it all in an email to you. I will explain it so that I'm just not rambling now. That will come out to you. Your choice if you wish to volunteer. As long as your child is here at this school, you will be good to volunteer until their academic prem here ends. Every year, I will just give you a show. We will do your vulnerable sector, and you're diet. You don't have to keep herating the same police checks. What else do besides supposed to keep, Jim? That? Yeah, Cash online food programmer the two big ones and the finish check. If you have any questions, email me. You' Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Hello, I'm Madame Mulder. I'm currently Chief one of our French emer, JKSK classes and my colleague, Madame H. Our DETE. So in Kartens, small group learning is a great way to build on what we've covered in class during a whole class lesson. gives students more one in one time with the teacher and the DECE. So we can really put on focus on each child's unique learning needs and style. So a chance for kids to ask questions, to try things out, and to build their confidence in a more personal setting. all take part in learning centers between here, which are connected to what we've worked on during that week or the month. So they get to choose where they want to go, whether it's an iPad, game, or lock building, or hands on literacy of math centers, or even the drama center. So these centers make learning fun and meaningful while also helping develop their creativity, collaboration, and problem solving skills.. So although the corner one of our programs our daily moveines in our space, we also get the chance to bring food on exciting, extracurricular excursions. So this year we've had our gu takeo to my bar for the cherry glasses. All. We've been to the Harper. Harboretum. to learn about fond, life and to include some wildflower.. We're gonna have to do a waterfall suit. Yeah. We also had positively pads come in and they brought in 10 different species of animals that the kids got to play with and a scientist who brought in different experiments and the kids got a chance to do to learn all about how they. So field trips and special days to visitors are a great way to bring learning to life in kindergarten, and whether we're out depending on to explore or welcoming a specialist or performer in our classroom, or joining a webinar, these experiences help our students make real world in connections. And these are our curiosity, and the left for learning. So All right, this is where we're going to invite Mamar to speak about our rotary subjects and our rotary teachers. Okay, so in addition to rary classroom, you get to go to some specialist classrooms. So in our school, currently this year, junior is a senior Juniorunior particate and our HP, which is our health, as the program actually zero. They also get to do some music and dance and drama, These are the current educators from teaching. So in the health and phys programs, all based on the regular curum that you will see, they get a lot of movement, and we will focus on our health habits, healthy living. Sometimes they're in here, sometimes you get used that beautiful field outside, typically working and in the air. Typically, you get about two periods a week, 40 minutes each of that. Music, with one of our music educators, is a specialist, that takes place downstairs, and they do a lot of rhythm and movement. They do put on a small performance, just prior to our winter break.. quite amazing, and you will see many talents come forward. visit our is Guan of our Peters, Mame Siarzer is that teacher, so again, music will be about two periods a week, but 40 minutes each. And duringior wrote his specialist subjects are designated early child and educators do travel with the students who. Okay? And our dance and drama, this is Mr. Sidler. He's an current teacher in the Dancing drama, inition. that movement and expression. You'll notice in the kindergarten report card and there's a report card, that the degrees one day, and it all falls through to not with four drinks, and out. But that's a typical rotary subject, especially subject so in addition to homeroom, we have an exposure to French University, our activity teachers. Anders, we're gonna skip the next slide in response to and just need of cutting a short.. So that's, a little good, we can send that another time again, so yeah. Hi, I'm. I'm one of the French ECEs. I work with Madame Jameson in in 102. I've been here for about 12 years, so lots of familiar faces and families that I already know. I do not like speaking in public, so I'm giving you a very short p is good. And Madame Jameson is gonna elaborate on our Lacy program. Yes. Okay, so I Madame Jameson, I currently teach French emergent and I'mano 2 just over here. I'm going to be really quick with this. Literacy is one of the poor foundations of kindergarten. So in kindergarten, all everything we do involves literacy. We support literacy through play, through exploration, through meaningful conversations, especially in the French language, where they're developing vocabulary and developing confidence in a wholly different language. We do a lot of noticing print, we do stories together, expressing their ideas, and teaching them how to express their ideas. That's actually a really big thing. We also work with them for beginning to write skills, building fine motor and early printing skills, which is something that everyone here should be doing at home this summer. Get Play Do, get scissors, do all the fine oors. There's tons of great information on the TedSB website if you want that.. But yes, we also use a structured literary program. So that's letter sound, connections, decoding symbol words, and we're going to talk a little more, a little more about that now. So what we do mostly, we do supplement, but we use Uf or Sunil C, in our kindergarten classrooms, and this is a structured program that follows the same structure every single day. So we go through about eight steps a day and it helps us teach students foundational reading skills. We start with a warm up always. It's a mix of funic awareness, visual, and auditory, blending drill, so recognizing a graphy, recognizing the letter, and knowing what sound it makes, being able to put two letters together to make a sound, or to make a sound combination. And then we always explicitly teach a new concept. They also have tons of time to practice this, so they in older grades, they might spend one to three days. We might spend up to a week working on a specific specific concept. Infri immersion it's the exact same program as in English with the Order of SoundT adapted to suit the language. And that's about it. Well, my Mrs. Tyler to speak now. Okay, thanks for listening. I know that was a lot of information. Don't worry, we'll tell you again. And at this time, we would like to offer you the opportunity and invite you to you, two of our classrooms. We 102, which is down here is our French emerging kindergarten classroom, and we're 109, which is damnow to your left is our our relationction.art classroom. And at that time, if you have any questions, feel free to ask them, and find any easier for you to hear the answer. And thank you so much for coming out today. Thank you. If you at the back, we have four things.. 
