---
title: Strategy
creation_date: November 18, 2013
modification_date: November 7, 2016
---


Strategy

Definition
Strategy is about making specific choices to win in a marketplace

A firm creates a sustainable competitive advantage over its rivals by deliberately choosing a different set of activities to deliver unique value.

Strategy is an integrated set of choices that uniquely positioned a firm in its industry so as to create sustainable advantage and superior value relative to the competition.

Strategy is the answer to these five questions:

- What is your winning aspiration?
- Where will you play?
- How will you win?
- What capabilities must be in place?
- What management systems are required?

Really clear trade-offs that align to capital allocation - small store, city strategy vs big store suburb strategy

Budget to it that in emergent strategy (mip relief) - investments in Mobile

What's happening with the centralization on eCommerce?

-----------

Choosing a unique advantage
Imitation by cloning - copying everything
imitation by straddling - maintain existing advantage while trying to extend the advantages of competitors (Air Canada and Air Canada rouge)
Must make trade-offs to make this work can never do both without incurring major inefficiencies
Trade-offs protect the game stragglers

Trade-offs are required for three reasons: 
inconsistencies in image or reputation 
Arise from activities themselves - different product configuration, different equipment, different employee behavior, different skills, different management systems (value is destroyed if an activity is under designed or over designed for its use -- productivity can improve with variation in an activity is limited - Learning, leverage and scale)

Without a clear framework (trying to be all things to all people) employees become confused and it becomes difficult to make decisions

When defining customer segments it's important to define the activities that you will do differently for each customer segment - different activities is the key

Positioning 

Variety-based positioning
Offers a subset of the industries activities, products or services 
Conserve a wide array of customers -  but for most will only satisfy a subset of their needs
Have a superior value chain for a particular type of service

Needs-based positioning
When groups of customers need something specific 

Competitive advantage - being faster, cheaper than your competitors 

Competitive advantage can be disrupted in 4 ways:
1. A structural change in the demand-side environment (customers affluence, demographic) 
eg. increasing affluence could promote customers' demand greater choice and higher-quality
2. An improvement in key capabilities by one or more competitors 
eg. Walmart becoming better at supply chain management than Kmart even though it outpaced growth for the first two decades with its focus on urban markets 
3. New and more capable competitors from another market enter your territory
eg. GM, Ford - when Japanese came into the US market in the early 1970s
4. A radical change in technology
eg. Nokia focused on voice telephony while Apple developed smartphones enabled by 3G and wireless internet capability 

Ask 2 questions:
-- What possible risks does your company face regarding each of the four types of competitive disruption?
-- On the proactive basis how much your company unleash each type of disruption on your competitor?

Two faces of competitive advantage onstage and offstage
-- Onstage competitive advantage - the perceptions of target customers about how your goods and services compare with those of competitors along the criteria that are important to them in making buying decisions
(Do your competitors give you credit for your competitive advantage?)
-- Backstage competitive advantage - how your resources capabilities and relationships compare with those of your competitors 
(Enabled the company to create and sustain on stage competitive advantages)

Trying to create on stage manages without enabling them with backstage advantages is almost always a suicidal path.

Customer alignment
Matching what you sell and deliver with what the customer really needs and wants.
 
Purchase and consumption cycle
Need/want > evaluate > purchase > use/store > maintain/upgrade > dispose
How does the customer:
Realize the need for a purchase?
Define these needs
Identify the alternatives
Choose a vendor or brand
Place the order 
pay for the order 
follow up on the order
Have the goods and services delivered
Have them stored 
Utilize them effectively
Have them maintained and upgraded
Dispose of the old goods

Ask this question:
At each point in the cycle, does your company enjoy a competitive advantage? Or parity? Or disadvantage?

